I was originally torn as to how to
approach this video because on one hand
Asus launched their RG Ally X the
follow-up to the RG Ally and this
product is awesome way better than I
thought it would be based on the rumors
but on the other hand the same company
Asus has been under heavy controversy
over bad RMA practices and just like
terrible customer support and that whole
conversation stemmed around this product
here the original Rog Ally so over the
past few weeks that I've been testing
the alliax I've been reaching out to
Asus so I'm like you guys you guys need
to make a statement about this you guys
need to do something about this whole
controversy because like people need to
hear something now they finally
responded with I think a message that
the entire Community needs to hear uh so
this video is going to be split into two
parts first I'm going to evaluate this
product solely on the merits of this
product as it is just like separate from
all the controversies and stuff but uh
the second part of this video we need to
talk about customer support particularly
asus's approach to this whole thing okay
so first the RG Alx this isn't a major
overhaul of the device it's a lot of
small changes that ultimately add up to
make it feel like a significant update
and the biggest one being its battery
life so this is now an 80w hour battery
now on the original Alli uh one I guess
we'll call the Ali 1 this had a 40w hour
battery and it's just double straight up
double the battery size
and from most of my testing it's
literally double the battery life now
for whatever reason Asus won't allow me
to show you actual testing numbers but
you can imagine it's simple physics
right here's the battery life of the
original RG li1 so if you double the
battery size you can kind of imagine
what the new battery life would be like
on RG liix and it's a very significant
bump like if you're running this on the
15 wat performance mode you can
realistically get like 3 hours plus of
in-game run time it's like that's crazy
good and then also if you dip this down
to lower wattages so if you're running
it at the 10 watt profile or if you're
just locking the frame rate to like 60
frames per seconds in some games you can
get like Nintendo switch caliber battery
life like like six seven sometimes eight
hours of battery life like it's crazy
how good the battery life is on a
Windows handheld and I think for them to
pull this off like the tech and the
engineering required to pull this off
was difficult to do because they doubled
the battery size on this machine without
it changing in form factor or ergonomics
over the original one uh the other thing
they've changed with lax well the other
major one they've changed is Ram so now
it has more RAM and faster Ram so this
now has 24 gigs of RAM and faster Ram
compared to the 16 gigs of RAM on the
original RG Ali and because these are
amds apus they're sharing the memory
between the system memory and the GPU so
the extra 8 gigs of RAM can have a
decent impact on performance but it
depends on the game uh keep in mind
though that the CPU and the screen
remain unchanged with the new product so
uh it doesn't have an OLED screen or
anything it's got the same 7in panel
it's an awesome panel that was
originally on alli1 but they didn't
update it or anything on the Alx and
same with the CPU it's still running a
Z1 extreme I don't think the chip should
even change until we see a fairly big
step up in Energy Efficiency from AMD or
Intel because that's really what these
types of processors are all about right
it's got to be a super energy efficient
chip to able to last with good battery
lights uh now a few changes in terms of
like the Aesthetics and ergonomics so
obviously the big change is the new one
is black seemingly only comes in Black
at launch uh but also the ergonomics of
the device so if you'll notice the new
one in black has it's just like a bigger
hump on the back the original RG allies
was like a flatter design and even like
the kind of angular cutout so down on
the bottom right it's just like a very
sharp angled cut off and on the new one
is like a more rounded curve and just in
general the moment I picked up RG Al X
you could just tell it's a more just an
ergon more ergonomic feel uh buttons and
inputs have all been updated the major
ones are the sticks this is a more it's
a more responsive stick it's got a
higher tension on the spring it just
bounces and moves around more
responsively also the d-pad has been
updated but all the inputs including the
back buttons have all been tweaked a
little bit now if you'll notice on the
original RG Ally there was an XG mobile
Port this thing was used to connect to
their proprietary uh external GPU but on
the new one Alli X instead of that
proprietary Port they now have two USB
C's one of them being us before with
Thunderbolt compliance so you can
connect up external gpus and docks of
your choice so the overall product is
just a lot a lot of little tweaks that I
think make the overall product way
better than the original the one thing
that's a little bit disappointing is
that they changed the shape just enough
that a lot of accessories don't fit on
this new product it's kind of annoying
like I just recently picked up the kill
switch like this is the dbrand case and
this thing doesn't fit on the new one
it's close like I tried ramming it in
but it just doesn't fit so uh this is an
awesome case I think this is actually
one of the I think the best looking
cases that you can get for the all I had
this thing on the steam deck as well but
doesn't fit on this new one now inside
you might be wondering how do they
double the battery life of this thing
and the battery size of this thing
without it becom way larger or heavier
like the new Alli X is only about 70 G
heavier than the old one and the way
they did it is actually quite
interesting one of the things they
tackled was the weight of the casing
it's a lot lighter but also the thermal
system has been reduced in both size and
weight and that was a little bit
concerning because typically when it
comes to Thermal systems you want things
to be bigger and heavier like that just
allows you to have the most amount of
Hardware in these things to be able to
pull off the heat right but somehow they
made this new one smaller and lighter
and they claim that it has better
thermal performance than the old one so
I think like 25% more air flow and when
you look inside the new fans definitely
have more blades but in terms of thermal
performance and fan noise I do want to
test this stuff properly on retail units
before I draw any conclusions uh also a
new SSD position so you can now have
full length ssds in the allix compared
to the Shorties of the original li1 so
it's just a little more convenient if
you want to upgrade the drive inside
these devices now the last thing is the
new Alli X has a brand
new SD card slot so if you know the lore
of the Alli x uh the SD card slot has
had problems in the original one so the
new one they claim it's all new and I
think this is a great point to
transition over to the next part of this
video which is a talk about the customer
service of Ally so on the very first day
that I did a video of the original RG
Ally one of the first comments I saw it
was on y combinator some guy wrote this
the RG Ally seems like a really nice
piece of Hardware having said that I
cannot possibly stress enough how bad of
a time you will have if it breaks and
you have to deal with an RMA or Asus
customer support you'd probably save
yourself a lot of time and frustration
by just throwing it in the trash and
buying a new one or a steam deck if
something goes wrong with it now this
was written on May 17th of 2023 so like
well before any of the SD Card issues
popped up and well before any of the
gamers Nexus or like any of the issues
could have possibly popped up with the
original Ally because this came out
right at the launch okay I remember
reading this way way way at the
beginning and I thought to myself how is
this the comment the top comment on a
thread on in a civilized thread right
this isn't like some cess pool of red
this is like actual conversations about
people interested in hardware and I
thought the only way that this thing's
bubbled up to the top is because Asus
has built themselves a reputation over
the years of having dog water RMA and
just customer support policy that that
is why this is there now over the course
of the
year they proved this Asus had terrible
support for Ally rmas and terrible
support and Communications around the SD
Card issues and it all peaked when Steve
over at Gamers Nexus had a problem with
his ally sent it in and after a little
while the whole situation just exploded
into a wonderful display of how bad the
warranty and R policies really were with
Asus now I think the reason why it is so
bad with this particular product is it's
the price I think Asus priced the
original Ally too low they were too
aggressive at$ 699 they wanted to
compete with the steam deck and they
wanted to make something that was
attractive at best boy and I don't think
they baked that like the whole idea of
like warranties and fixing things I
don't think they baked it into the price
properly like the the actorial math guys
they're just they they messed up and so
now you have a ton of issues and the
only way to fix it is to spend money
like this I'm talking about Asus here
Asus has to spend money to fix all these
things and they just don't have it baked
into the price of this product and
that's why I think this product the new
one is priced higher this is now $100
more at $799 and obviously it's a better
product and bigger battery and whatnot
but typically those types of
improvements don't cost $100 more I
think the reason why they they jacked up
the prices because okay we get it now in
order to do these things in order to fix
these problems you just have to have the
budget baked into the price of the
product and that's why this thing is
$100 more uh so my stance on this whole
thing is that before I shot this video
I'd been reaching out to AC I'm like
dudes you guys need to have an
improvement in policy or something needs
to have changed internally so that
people have confidence and in buying
this thing or else I'm not even going to
show this thing I don't even want to
make a video on the Ally X until there's
some kind of confirmation that there's
something legitimate something real that
when it comes to affecting the original
Ally because there's a lot of people
that are pissed about this product I
don't blame them I would be if I had an
issue with this thing and I couldn't get
it fixed and they wanted me to do stupid
things to get it fixed no so uh it turns
out I just got an email this morning
there's a confirmation in the email from
Sasha over at AC and he's saying that
they now have 2 years of warranty full
warranty on the original Alli I assume
this is going to be some kind of press
release eventually but uh two full years
so that's not just SD card but the full
product two years now that I mean that's
awesome to me that's a that's a good
step in the in the right direction I
would say that that's even like a bigger
step than I would have expected like
that's a very that's a good solution to
the problem and they're also apparently
making like more repair places in the
states to be able to make this process a
little bit easier for people and faster
but I wouldn't buy any of these products
not the old one or the new one until you
see something from Asus written that
jives with how you feel about this
situation because it is it's been really
bad and this is a gaming handheld these
are not motherboards and gpus these are
like you know kids buy these things too
and they just want these things to work
these are are inexpensive relatively and
they should just work it shouldn't be
crazy amounts of effort to be able to
fix something that is not your fault so
I'm glad that they've done that two
years of warranty on the old one sounds
awesome I don't know if it'll be two
years on the new one
but we'll see